---
author: elliott
category: notes
title: "MOAR Dicts; Poetry Files"
layout: post
published: false
---

# Q&A

- What's your meet up plan?
- Project plan due Tues, with reports & standups every day from here on out.

# First Steps

Would anyone volunteer to show what they have so for for their Drawing or Blackjack app?  The earlier stage, the better.  My goal is to help people get an idea of how to get started.

# Dicts Solutions

<!--
Ex 1

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/6836f5a01e" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Ex 2-5

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/7ab711043e" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
-->

# Dictionaries Part Deux

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/7a57cec4a5" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Things to remember:

- You're looping through each row.  If a state exists, do one set of things.  If not, do another set of things.  That's the pattern for both 1 and 3.
- `('\t').join(["some", "LIST", "of", "things"])` is an idiom!  Live it, love it, use it.  You can also join around spaces, commas, whatever you need.
- Got a header in your list of lists? **Slice it off**
- Got bad data?  Manually clean it.  Or automatically clean it.  Or try/except.

# Take home, ungraded Mid-term

This is exactly the same as the other section of INLS 560.  Completing it will get you full credit, and knowing
your numerical grade should give you a sense of whether you've gotten some of the basics.

This is something that you should treat like a real test to get the most out of.  Review **Syntax**, **flow of control**,
and **loops** in particular.  Trinket does a lot for you in terms of autocomplete and error detection but this will
be a paper test with no feedback so make sure you're not too reliant on those crutches.  It is open notes and open book
but I encourage you to try it closed notes and closed book.
